so I recently asked the following
question on Twitter what is the first
thing that comes to your mind when you
think about Huawei and I got a lot of
different response
some people said they've never heard of
it before some said it's a great phone
some said espionage some said it's a
terrible phone a few people thought it
was a vacation spotlight they thought it
was Hawaii but the real question is why
is President Donald Trump signing an
executive order calling Huawei a threat
to national security why what's the big
deal about them why is the director of
NSA FBI CIA saying hey American users do
not touch the device if it's Huawei
don't even get close to it why are so
many people around the world from the
intelligence community worried about wow
wait what is it is there something you
and I don't know about it's that the
tariffs again is it a trade war is it
maybe a cyber war maybe somebody's
spying on you and I what is it we're
gonna get into that today before I get
into it you may be asking is a pad why
do I need to know about Huawei a few
different reasons number one this could
cause a market correction of 10 20 30
percent if it doesn't work out number
two its cybersecurity privacy it's a big
part of this so you kind of want to know
what's going on here and last but not
least conversation start in the world of
business people gonna ask about huawei
you not have an opinion about it having
said that let's get into it first I'm
going to talk about nine reasons why
they were banned then we're gonna talk
about their numbers then we're going to
talk about 5g then timeline of what took
place with Huawei from 1987 to today so
having said that let's get into nine
reasons number one espionage why
espionage is China using Huawei to spy
on US and other countries is that really
what it is
number two competition is this u.s. is
way of protecting their golden child
of Apple which is cost Tim Cook and
Donald Trump to become texting terms
today they're best friends because Tim
Cook just met with Donald Trump on June
13th on Thursday and they're having
conversations why because Apple's the
golden child company a Steve Jobs Steve
Wozniak everybody uses their phones I
would much rather have Apple win then
why we win could it be Iran violating
the US sanctions because of what
happened in China with the CFO we'll
talk about that later on is that 5g is
it first - is it who gets 5g first and
how much is that worth - the GDP
whichever country gets 5g first is it
power worldwide domination it's its
cyber war insurance policy because what
if a cyber war happens this is our way
of the CIA the NSA and the FBI
preventing us of somebody else a major
empire that went from being tapped into
not being taught the second place and
wants to be the most dominant Empire
worldwide spying on America this is our
way of saying hey you cannot come and
find out what we're doing here stealing
trade secrets similar going back to made
in China 2025 plan which is any company
that wants to do business in China they
have to kind of give their trade secrets
is this kind of part of that or last but
not least is a terrorist what is it so
before we get into some of these topics
let's look at numbers here's numbers for
you
worldwide smartphone markets okay 2018
Samsung was number one worldwide they
saw 292 million phones okay that's 20.8%
of marketplace 2018 Apple sold two
hundred and eight point eight million
which is roughly fifteen percent of
market share while we saw two hundred
six million phones which is fourteen
point seven percent Pat what's the big
deal here here's what's the big deal
two hundred and six million phones and
many people watching this you've never
heard a while way before maybe you have
maybe you haven't but huawei's third
place
yes but here's what's important look at
2017 where they were at Samsung so three
hundred and seventeen point seven
million they were twenty one point seven
percent of market share Apple so two
hundred fifteen point eight million
they were fourteen point seven Huawei
was 154 million
they were ten point five percent which
means Samsung is down eight percent
Apple is down three point two percent
Huawei is up thirty three point six
percent that is such a big number that's
plus fifty million phones in one year
when your competition is down three
point two percent any competitions down
eight percent when I looked at this I
said okay two hundred six million phones
they sold their up 50 million the US
government bans any US companies of
doing business with Huawei but what is
their risk are they so much in u.s. that
this gives them a hard time to do
business or are they more in China so
let's look at the numbers you have total
smartphone sold in China 2018 here's
what it looks like 2018 while we sold
105 million phones okay which
made them 26.4% of all China market
share an apple so thirty-six point three
million they're nine percent and the
year before Apple so forty-one million
and the year before while we sold ninety
point nine million look at this number
you know this app was down 11% and
Huawei is up about fifteen sixteen
percent so so so let's take a look at
this so if they sold a hundred and five
million phones Huawei in China alone and
total it's 206 what percentage is that
fifty one percent which means fifty-one
percent of their phone sales is strictly
in China so I know the u.s. banned US
companies of doing business with Huawei
but 51% is in business they're doing is
in China and 49 percent is outside of
China very small in America if any is in
America Europe other countries right now
watch Apple here at Apple's two hundred
and eight million phones 36 million was
sold in China which is 17 percent so
here's the scary thing US government
banned US companies from doing business
with Huawei what would happen if China
said listen this whole tariff thing is
getting a little control we are going to
ban Chinese companies from doing
business with Apple what would that do
to them because iPhone users they are
actively 900 million iPhone users
worldwide according to Apple added a 900
million active 300 million is coming out
of China let me say that one more time
at a 900 million active iPhone users 300
million is coming from China that's 33%
that's gonna be a very big hit if China
decided to turn it around on them this
is one of the reasons why Tim Cook and
Trump are meeting together so regularly
because if all of a sudden China makes a
decision like that that's like a tariff
on steroids against Apple and Apple is
the biggest company they tanked the
market tank so it's very fickle right
now if this doesn't take place here and
they figure out a resolution but let me
continue these are the numbers we're
looking at here while we in sales so in
2010 while we sold three million phones
then they sold twenty billion next year
30 to 50 to 75 108 139 153 and in 2018
obviously they saw 206 million phones
their total revenues in 2018 was 108
point five billion dollars that's up 21%
from 2017 and if you look at the total
numbers of phone sold it's 780 million
phones sold during that eight-year run
that they went out so now you look at
this thing safe huh it's pretty
impressive I mean this is good stuff but
what did they do differently I mean
isn't it just cell phones watch the
amount of money they put into R&D
research and development Intel in 2018
put thirteen point five billion in R&D
Apple put fourteen point to Apple
monstrosity put fourteen point to
Microsoft trillion dollar company
fourteen point seven huawei 108 billion
revenues put fifteen point four billion
and this is China labor we're talking
about this is not us engineer cost
this is China labor we're talking on let
me put that in perspective for you added
there one hundred and eighty eight
thousand employees that they have 75
thousand of their employees strictly
focused on rnd again 75 out of 188 is
strictly R&D so after while we have
Samsung sixteen point seven then
alphabet 21 then Amazon at the top of 20
point eight billion into R&D so you look
at all this stuff you know okay I mean I
get it good products that they're
constantly researching they're trying to
get better they can't really do business
in us right now so what is I'm still not
getting a pad what is the big deal with
these guys what is the worry here's what
it is February of 2019 this is what
President Trump tweeted I want 5g and
even 6g technology in the United States
as soon as possible it is far more
powerful faster and smarter than the
current standard American companies must
step up their efforts or get left behind
there is no reason that we should be
lagging behind on something that is so
obviously the future I want the United
States to win through competition not by
blocking out currently more advanced
technologies we must always be the
leader in everything we do especially
when it comes to the very exciting world
of technology
let me read one sentence of this tweet
again go back to I want the United
States to win through competition not by
blocking out currently more advanced
technologies what does that mean I mean
isn't it banning Huawei actually banning
a better technology that's coming into
u.s. is that a good thing or bad thing
why are we doing that but he wants 5g
and 6g and what's the big deal about 5g
what is five G what
wand you what was 2g here's what's the
difference 1g was the brick phones back
in the days that's what one she was to G
was the old Nokia phones and a few other
phones that were 2g 3G this is where the
speed comes in if you wanted to download
a two-hour movie on a 3G phone it would
take you 26 hours if you wanted to
download a two hour movie on a 4G phones
it would take you six minutes but if you
want to download a two hour movie on a
5g phone it'll take you three point six
seconds boom you have the movie sitting
there iPad 5g I want to watch this movie
one two three boom you have the movie go
watch it
that's 5g and that's scary and by the
way 5g is not about phones only five g's
about a lot of different technologies
gonna be using for surveillance cars GPS
mapping technology internet faster
internet also many different things
they're gonna be using with this but
again what's the big deal about this 5g
here's the big deal about 5g when the
race was taking place for 4G us got it
and if I said oh my gosh u.s. won the
race for 4G you know how much it made us
one hundred billion dollars to add it to
the GDP okay into the GDP let me tell
you what the race for 5g is whoever wins
it whoever wins the race to 5g it is
three million jobs added to added to US
economy and it's 500 billion dollars
added to the top line revenue GDP that's
the race of 5g so why everybody's after
but there's a big problem right now
here's a problem
the race for 5g China is already testing
their 5g technology and they are
projecting that they will be done by
2020 there'll be the first country to be
done with 5g 2020 okay everybody else
u.s. Japan South Korea EU everybody else
is projected to finish by 2025 this is a
scary thought but if they finish by 2025
that's a long time for that to be taking
place that is an advantage so if they
win the contract for 5g they can go out
and give it to 57 different countries
and say we're not giving it to us but
we're giving it to these other countries
so China
eventually can catch up by 2025 and pass
us and be the dominant
and power worldwide you don't think
there's thinking about that that's a
message they made when the Olympics was
in China and they did the most amazing
opening show they want to compete they
want America to know we can compete with
you we're not worried about you this is
very very competitive right now right
and by the way for some of you guys I
use AT&T in US and you may say but my
phone says 5ge
that's AT&T just changing the name of
LTE to 5ge it's a fraud it's not really
a 5ge
it's really a 4G but they just change
the name to 5g for people to say I got a
5g phone you can go research and look it
up for yourself which is brilliant by
the way but it's not really brilliant
because it's not 5g so now this is all
the stuff we're looking at the 5g issue
now let's look at the timeline let's
look at the timeline how this whole
thing took place and how we got here
while we got started back in 1987 by the
founder Ren Schenk PHA which by the way
he's to be part of the Chinese military
and he openly talks about the fact that
he supports the Communist Party very
open about it
so in December of 2001 Indian
intelligence accused Huawei of aiding
Taliban we're talking 2001 that's 18
years ago they're already having issues
with an intelligence community of India
then you go to 2003 they decide to start
selling phones okay fine 2003 Cisco
decides to sue away for unlawfully
copying intellectual property this is
something they've been accused of many
times but the first one goes back to
2003 then in October of 2007 Bush
administration warned on huawei 3.com
deal they didn't want this deal to be
taking place so eventually after a
couple years I think three comments up
doing the deal with you will Packard but
not Huawei okay this next one's a little
bit weird and interesting at the same
time October of 2010 former UK
intelligence boss Andrew Hopkins joins
Huawei we're talking former UK
intelligence boss not just anybody
this guy's got 40 years plus experience
in intelligence worldwide you want to go
work for Huawei why is why we're trying
to recruit you why are you trying to get
into the UK in formation what's the
purpose beyond is it just because you
got a fancy degree or maybe you got
access to certain information that can
help Huawei huh makes you think doughnut
March 2012 Huawei banned from Australian
National Broadband Network another one
September of 2012 David
camera brokers a 1.2 billion pound deal
with Huawei I don't want to read too
much into it maybe they're just doing
something because they want the
technology to be stronger and you came
that could be it could be as simple as
that but 1.2 billion UK after the head
of intelligence it a bit weird there
okay
July of 2013 former CIA head Michael
Hayden slams Huawei publicly slams
Huawei saying this is not a company
anybody should trust March 2017
WikiLeaks vault 7 release feature Huawei
backdoors this is when people started
seeing some things with CIA and wait a
minute what is really going on with
Huawei I mean it was a very big red flag
maybe all these accusations that people
are making is accurate February 2018
director of CIA NSA and FBI warned US
citizens against using any Huawei
products ok so now this is when it
starts getting interesting
April 2018 America alleges possible Iran
sanctions violations from Huawei
the guy I think something's going on
here this is when you know when US has a
sanction against Iran diamonds you can
you cannot do business with Iran and do
business with us but they were trying to
kind of go around and figure out a
different creative way of a subsidiary
company to use which we'll get to here
in a minute as well May 2018 pentagon
bans Huawei ZTE devices from military
base ok so now this is when things start
getting ugly December of 2018 the CFO of
Huawei mank wengie which is also the
daughter of Wren the founder of Huawei
gets arrested in Cameron why does she
get arrested in Canada well because
we're longer some US was trying to get
her and she was evading us
and finally u.s. calls on Canada see you
got arrest her and she got arrested why
does she get arrested because they were
using potentially allegedly they were
using a company called sky comm which is
a subsidiary they say it's not but it's
a subsidiary of Huawei that we're using
sky come to do business with Iran so
this causes the chairman of Huawei in
January 2019 to say the following no
market can keep us away is he
insinuating that the 5g is going to be
so strong that even US has to figure out
a way to do business with us I don't
know but he said no market can keep us
away and
may 15 2009 teen Trump signs the
executive order banning any US company
of doing business with Huawei and that's
what brings us to where we are today so
look you just had an information
overload you've been given so much if
and inform us you're sending you're
saying holy moly I had no idea this was
taking place with Huawei but let's talk
about the spy part you know spying
espionage you may say what Pat you mean
to tell me people are spying on us
you got simple questions to ask yourself
would you rather have China spy on you
or would you rather have us spy on you
what do you mean if you use Huawei
phones in u.s. maybe China has the
ability to spy on you are you okay with
China spying on you or if you use an
Apple phone are you okay with Apple
being able to spy on if somebody says
there's no way in the world that can do
that isn't that illegal let's just say
it is illegal there's a reason why
people put band-aids on their cameras of
their computers you're not comfortable
someone's watching me right or are we
more receptive to being spied on today
or is this a new thing it's been around
for a while if you try to figure that
part out
you're gonna start watching conspiracy
theory movies are gonna drive yourself
nuts and all of a sudden you know start
having nightmares that and I not
sleeping sweating all night long right
here's another question of our spine
would you rather have a private
corporation spy on you or government spy
on you if a private corporation spies on
you they do it all the time on Facebook
how do they do it
what is your buying patterns they're
simply spying on you to get more money
out of you that's what corporations do
right but if a government spies on you
what did they spy on you for your next
moves controlling you seeing what you're
doing I mean these smart phones that we
have these fitbit's we put on isn't like
a you know device to kind of track where
we're going so the point I'm trying to
make you is the following spying if you
go to the rabbit hole of spying you're
gonna go so into deep you're gonna get
more scared about what could happen to
you that's the spying part okay but let
me talk to you about what I really
thinks taking place and what I think the
president the administration Tim Cook
and these companies need to be focused
on today and that is 5g because this is
the biggest thing this 5g is the real
issue
let me explain why China gets 5g in 2020
and say they give it to 57 different
countries and not us and we don't get it
five years later and what if they say we
don't want to do anything forget about
it and all of a sudden other countries
in Europe South America start contacting
them to do business with Huawei because
they got 5g and they broker deals
like the Prime Minister David Cameron
Cameron brokered a deal of 1.2 billion
pounds with Huawei what if other
countries start doing this what if all
of a sudden everybody has 5g everybody
has incredible technology and US has
last five years what if they go to every
one of these guys
EU South Korea Japan and they do it with
them but not with us so now watch what
happens when you're raising money and
you deal with investors here's what
takes place you the entrepreneur the
owner the shareholder the investor comes
in you have 20 different markers to
negotiate with I want this much money no
problem we wants just much equity no I
want fewer equity to give it to you no I
want this much no ok I'll give you this
equity less but I want to get dividends
on the 20 million that I gave you it has
too much difference because it adds up
to this yes it does ok I want 3 board
seats no way I'm giving you 3 but I'm
gonna give it to so you go through the
whole thing and you the investor or you
the entrepreneur have to decide which
one you want to give up u.s. is not in a
power position with everything I know it
may seem like it but they're not very
simple and this this is the scariest
part with the 5g so President Trump his
administration with all the advisors Tim
Cook they all have to sit down and
figure out what they're willing to give
up and what they're not willing to give
up because if they just go and say I
want all of it it may crack 2030 percent
okay it may crack because they're gonna
ask for something because they have
something that US doesn't have and
that's five geniune in a Europe that's
massive so the tariffs you want to put
25 percent on this 25 percent on this I
put 25 percent our soybeans you put two
and we can go back and forth all we want
but we got to sit in a room and lay all
these things out and US has got to say
to them here's what we're doing
I'll cut the tariffs but you got to give
me a hundred percent of the 5g license
to us 2021 you get it we get it as well
there's no way normal I'm giving you I
wanted right off the bat when you get it
I'm not doing it okay give it to me six
months after you get it but you cannot
do business with anybody else but you
can get a head start in China just not
anybody else we're not doing it that's
that's the negotiation of getting 5g to
five years because we don't have any
u.s. quoc we're not ahead there's a lot
of people that are a lot of companies
that are doing it we're not ahead they
got to figure out a way to get this
technology that's how big it is it's
five hundred billion dollars
five hundred billion dollars to the GDP
three million jobs to the GDP the battle
is gonna be a big battle it's gonna be
interesting who wins this battle but
it's all about leverage and they have
the leverage on 5g and they have the
leverage on having a population of 1.5
billion people and us has got 330
million and they have a leverage of
their smartphone it's not as expensive
as the iPhone is we're Tim Cook is
saying I'm gonna make the iPhone cheaper
in China so I can compete with them
there's a lot of leverage and I hope all
the brains can come together and figure
this part out because me I'm just an
entrepreneur giving this information to
you so having said that if you watch
this video you want to go a little bit
more into it and find out more about the
US China trade where I made a video
titled us-china trade what you're gonna
enjoy watching this video it's gonna get
very detailed into the tariffs if you
haven't watched it click on this if
anything we talked about today
especially timeline you want to go more
into it we're gonna put the links below
and if you haven't subscribed to the
channel please click on the subscribe
button to sub to value tainment thanks
for watching everybody love you